README.md, before:

﻿Clyde
======
Clyde is a lamp with a lot of personality that you can adapt, play with, and truly call your own. Clyde is open source and Arduino-compatible.  You can change how Clyde reacts to his environment by inserting personality modules on his main controller board. You can also change how Clyde behaves by reprogramming his firmware using the standard Arduino IDE.

For more information, see the website at: http://www.fabule.com or the forum at: http://fabule.com/forum/

To report a bug in the hardware or software, go to:
http://github.com/fabule/Clyde/issues

Installation
------------

The Clyde firmware is divided into three parts: bootloader, library, and sketch.

You can find the Clyde library in /software/arduino/libraries/. Place the "Clyde" library folder inside your Arduino "librairies" folder. This contains the majority of the code that controls Clyde. If you are not sure about how to install an Arduino library, you can find instructions here: http://arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries

When the library is in place, you can look for the sketch in /software/arduino/libraries/Clyde/Examples/ClydeOriginal. This sketch does not contain much, but it is a good place to start playing with Clyde's behaviors.

If you are using Windows, you'll need to install Clyde's driver. Find installers for 32-bit and 64-bit in /software/arduino/drivers/.  Double-click the driver that matches your needs.

Before you open your Arduino IDE, you'll need to copy one more folder. This step will add Clyde as a device under the "Tools > Board menu". First, if you do not have a "hardware" folder at the same level as your Arduino "librairies" folder, time to create one. Browse to the "hardware" folder in /software/arduino/hardware/ and open the subfolder that matches the version of your Arduino IDE, 1.0.5 or 1.5. Inside you'll find a "fabule" folder. Copy the "fabule" folder, inside the Arduino "hardware" folder you just created.

At this point, you should be ready to compile and upload Clyde's firmware. Connect Clyde to your computer using the USB cable.  Open the "ClydeFirmware" sketch in your Arduino IDE under "File > Examples > Clyde > ClydeOriginal" . Select Clyde under the "Tools > Board" menu, and the port assigned to Clyde under "Tools > Serial" Port. Press "Upload", and the firmware should compile and upload into Clyde.

If you want to make modifications to the bootloader, please refer to the information found here: https://github.com/fabule/Clyde/tree/master/software/arduino/bootloaders/caterina

Configurations
--------------

h3. Using `TimeAlarms` library to enable alarms

The `Time` and `TimeAlarms` libraries provide functionality to set/get the time on an arduino and enable repeated or single alarms. An example configuration to use Clyde as an *alarm clock* is given in `/software/arduino/libraries/Clyde/Examples/ClydeTimeAlarm.ino`. The essential steps are to set the time and to define an alarm. Without any additional hardware, the time has to be set manually in and the firmware has to be uploaded to Clyde each time Clyde is detached from the power source. 


Credits
-------
Clyde is an open source project manage by Fabule Fabrications in Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Clyde is based on the Arduino project, see the website at: http://arduino.cc

Arduino uses the GNU avr-gcc toolchain, avrdude, avr-libc, and code from
Processing and Wiring, LUFA, and i2cdevlib.

Commit message:

+ Replaced the SerialCommand library shipped with Clyde with the (smaller) one from Stefan Rado. + Added ENABLE_MOUTH to "hide" all sound output code if ENABLE_MOUTH is not defined; otherwise the compiled code is too big to be uploaded... + Replaced some floats with uint8 to reduce the size of the firmware: in the fadeWhite and fadeAmbient functions; the second parameter is now a integer value with larger values causing longer, slower fades. + Defined example alarm functions in the ClydeTimeAlarms.ino firmware that allow Clyde to be used as a alarm clock.

README.md, after:

﻿Clyde
======
Clyde is a lamp with a lot of personality that you can adapt, play with, and truly call your own. Clyde is open source and Arduino-compatible.  You can change how Clyde reacts to his environment by inserting personality modules on his main controller board. You can also change how Clyde behaves by reprogramming his firmware using the standard Arduino IDE.

For more information, see the website at: http://www.fabule.com or the forum at: http://fabule.com/forum/

To report a bug in the hardware or software, go to:
http://github.com/fabule/Clyde/issues

Installation
------------

The Clyde firmware is divided into three parts: bootloader, library, and sketch.

You can find the Clyde library in /software/arduino/libraries/. Place the "Clyde" library folder inside your Arduino "librairies" folder. This contains the majority of the code that controls Clyde. If you are not sure about how to install an Arduino library, you can find instructions here: http://arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries

When the library is in place, you can look for the sketch in /software/arduino/libraries/Clyde/Examples/ClydeOriginal. This sketch does not contain much, but it is a good place to start playing with Clyde's behaviors.

If you are using Windows, you'll need to install Clyde's driver. Find installers for 32-bit and 64-bit in /software/arduino/drivers/.  Double-click the driver that matches your needs.

Before you open your Arduino IDE, you'll need to copy one more folder. This step will add Clyde as a device under the "Tools > Board menu". First, if you do not have a "hardware" folder at the same level as your Arduino "librairies" folder, time to create one. Browse to the "hardware" folder in /software/arduino/hardware/ and open the subfolder that matches the version of your Arduino IDE, 1.0.5 or 1.5. Inside you'll find a "fabule" folder. Copy the "fabule" folder, inside the Arduino "hardware" folder you just created.

At this point, you should be ready to compile and upload Clyde's firmware. Connect Clyde to your computer using the USB cable.  Open the "ClydeFirmware" sketch in your Arduino IDE under "File > Examples > Clyde > ClydeOriginal" . Select Clyde under the "Tools > Board" menu, and the port assigned to Clyde under "Tools > Serial" Port. Press "Upload", and the firmware should compile and upload into Clyde.

If you want to make modifications to the bootloader, please refer to the information found here: https://github.com/fabule/Clyde/tree/master/software/arduino/bootloaders/caterina

Configurations
--------------

h3. Using `TimeAlarms` library to enable alarms

The `Time` and `TimeAlarms` libraries provide functionality to set/get the time on an arduino and enable repeated or single alarms. An example configuration to use Clyde as an *alarm clock* is given in `/software/arduino/libraries/Clyde/Examples/ClydeTimeAlarm.ino`. This firmware can be uploaded instead of the `ClydeOriginal` firmware above by loading it under "File > Examples > Clyde > ClideTimeAlarms" and following the steps described above to compile and upload the firmware. The essential configuration steps for this alternative firmware are to set the time and to define an alarm. Without any additional hardware, the time has to be set manually in and the firmware has to be uploaded to Clyde each time Clyde is detached from the power source. In principle, the `Time` and `TimeAlarms` would allow to synchronize the arduino time e.g. with internet time over a Wifi shield.


Credits
-------
Clyde is an open source project manage by Fabule Fabrications in Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Clyde is based on the Arduino project, see the website at: http://arduino.cc

Arduino uses the GNU avr-gcc toolchain, avrdude, avr-libc, and code from
Processing and Wiring, LUFA, and i2cdevlib.
